add UML page (#399)
arfc/arfc.github.io: manual/guides/uml.md

---
layout: manual

> title: Generating UML Diagrams
> subtitle: "Generating UML Diagrams"

Reviewer: This is a little redundant.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/549cbf21-6ee7-4285-a737-03821fd2ad1f)
```suggestion
title: Inheritance Diagrams
subtitle: "Generating Inheritance Diagrams with UML"
```

permalink: /manual/guides/uml
---

Universal Modeling Language (UML) diagrams are a common way to visually
represent software components (such as classes and functions). When reviewing
code with someone new to the software, UML diagrams can be a useful tool.

Rather than writing UML diagrams by hand, we can generate them from existing
code using existing software tools. T

> | Language | Tools |

Reviewer: This table is a little squished, so I'll make separate pr to update the bootstrap css and add some padding.

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4bdf84bf-740d-4f5c-af98-cabcdc683cc0)

| -------- | ----- |
| C++      | [clang-uml](https://clang-uml.github.io/index.html) | 
| Python   | [pyreverse](https://pylint.pycqa.org/en/latest/additional_tools/pyreverse/index.html) |

`clang-uml` uses `clang`, and as such requires the `compile_commands.json` file.
The creator of `clang-uml` wrote a [blog
post](https://blog.bkryza.com/posts/compile-commands-json-gallery/) blog post
explaining how to generate `compile_commands.json` for various build systems).

`pyreverse` is included in (`pylint`)[https://www.pylint.org/]. `pyreverse`
relies on [`graphviz`](https://graphviz.org/) to generate the UML diagrams in
the DOT format. It is more limited than `clang-uml`, but there are limited
options outside of using an IDE.

The most common type of UML diagram is the _class diagram_. This represents the

> static state of the code, including any inhertiance structures. An example of a

Reviewer: static state seems redundant. 

```suggestion 
state of the code, including any inheritance structures. An example of a
```

> UML diagram is below:

Reviewer: I don't see any UML diagram example here.
